Disambiguate endorsed-triples semantics. (#254)
ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim: draft-ietf-rats-corim.md

#### Endorsed Values Triple {#sec-comid-triple-endval}

An Endorsed Values triple declares additional claims that an Attester cannot declare about itself in the Evidence it produces.

> These claims are added to the ACS when its environment matches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These claims are added to the ACS.
```

Author: I think we concluded in the meeting that we ought to keep the matching requirement.

For Endorsed Value Claims, the subject is either a Target or Attesting Environment, the object contains measurements, and the predicate is the unconditional association of the object to the subject.

> For endorsements to apply only to environments that match specific measurements, see {{sec-comid-triple-cond-endors}}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

#### Endorsed Values Triple {#sec-comid-triple-endval}

> An Endorsed Values triple declares additional measurements to add to the ACS when its environment has any other existing measurements.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An Endorsed Values triple declares additional measurements to add to the ACS when matches.
```

#### Endorsed Values Triple {#sec-comid-triple-endval}

> An Endorsed Values triple declares additional measurements to add to the ACS when its environment has any other existing measurements.

Reviewer 4: The existence of measurement is not a requirement.  After all, the matching is done only on the environment.

One could imagine the ACS loaded with environment-only evidence (i.e., one which doesn't carry any measurement, only signed environment identifier(s)).  If the environment in the endorsed value triple matches, the associated measurement (really, a property) is added to the ACS - e.g., "the chipset is enzyme-based" - a bio-RoT :-)

#### Endorsed Values Triple {#sec-comid-triple-endval}

> An Endorsed Values triple declares additional measurements to add to the ACS when its environment has any other existing measurements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An Endorsed Values triple declares additional measurements to add to the ACS.
```

> For Endorsed Value Claims, the subject is either a Target or Attesting Environment, the object contains measurements, and the predicate is the unconditional association of the object to the subject.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion

```

> For endorsements to apply only to environments that match specific measurements, see {{sec-comid-triple-cond-endors}}.

Author: The 1111 is informative to refer the reader to the conditional endorsements. Your added text seems to refer to the semantics described above in the text "These claims are added to the ACS when its environment matches."

> For endorsements to apply only to environments that match specific measurements, see {{sec-comid-triple-cond-endors}}.

Reviewer 5: > The 1111 is informative to refer the reader to the conditional endorsements. Your added text seems to refer to the semantics described above in the text "These claims are added to the ACS when its environment matches."

I wasn't paying attention to the link - just preserving what was there before. If the document structure groups the sections related to endorsement there is less of a need to cross-reference them. A one sentence explanation of conditional endorsement might follow in a straightforward way such as: "Conditional Endorsements are added to the ACS if additional Claims match, in addition to environment Claims."

the object contains measurements, and the predicate defines semantics for how
the object relates to the subject.

Said another way, take the pair of `environment-map` and `measurement-map / mkey` from a `endorsed-triple-record`.

> If this same pair matches the pair from a `reference-triple-record` from the same CoMID, consider that record to be an implicit condition for adding the `endorsed-triple-record` to the ACS.

Reviewer 4: The way I interpret this is different (apologies in advance for the poetic license).
If I am given some endorsed value $$EV_{i} = [ Env_{j}, Measurement_{k} ]$$
and the ACS's state is currently $$ACS = [ Env_{j}, Measurement_{l} ]$$
then $$Measurement_{k}$$ can be added to the ACS:
$$ACS = [ Env_{j}, Measurement_{l}, Measurement_{k} ]$$

Author: So the ACS has to have Some measurement by Somebody, irrespective of the reference values in the CoMID? You have no requirements on Measurement_l other than it exists (and therefore non-empty).

Reviewer 4: > So the ACS has to have Some measurement by Somebody irrespective of the reference values in the CoMID?

The ACS is initialised with evidence (see [Section 8.4.1](https://ietf-rats-wg.github.io/draft-ietf-rats-corim/draft-ietf-rats-corim.html#section-8.4.1-1)).  At least, there's one environment ($$Env_{j}$$) and one measurement associated with that ($$Measurement_{l}$$).

Reviewer 2: Endorsements have much greater degree of flexibility.

There can be `one` type of Endorsement belonging to an Attester Class, (identified by Class-ID) regardless of what Reference Value holds for the component!

Reviewer 4: > additional measurements **that are valid when** a Target Environment **has been verified against reference measurements**

Yes, this looks to me like prose that has been obsoleted by the recent work on the appraisal phases.  It should be changed accordingly.
